Below is a step‐by‐step analysis of what’s going wrong in the proof, followed by a summary of the root cause and a suggestion for how to move forward.

──────────────────────────────
Step 1. Identifying the Failing Tactic

In the proof script you have written

  unfold minOfThree minOfThree_spec
  aesop?
  linarith

the first tactic that “fails” is aesop?. In some branches of the case analysis (induced by the nested if–then–else in minOfThree) aesop? does not manage to solve the resulting goals. (In fact, Lean’s error message suggests that after trying aesop?, there are remaining subgoals such as
  case left: ... ⊢ c ≤ a
  case right: ... ⊢ c ≤ b
etc.) Essentially, aesop? gets “stuck” on these specific goals.

──────────────────────────────
Step 2. Considering the Proof State

After unfolding the definitions, the overall goal is a conjunction of two parts (the “specification”): one that says the result is ≤ a, ≤ b, and ≤ c, and one that says the result is equal to a or b or c. Because minOfThree is defined by nested ite’s (if–then–else), unfolding it leaves you with a “case analysis” situation. In each of these cases certain numeric inequalities are assumed. For example, one branch has
  h : a ≤ b  
  h₁ : c < a  
and the goal becomes
  c ≤ a.
This goal is (morally) trivial since any strict inequality (c < a) implies the non-strict inequality (c ≤ a). However, the automated search (aesop?) isn’t “bridging the gap” (i.e. automatically using the lemma lt.implies_le) in these branches. Similar issues arise in the other cases.

──────────────────────────────
Step 3. Matching the Proof Approach to the Specification

The specification requires proving two things:
 1. The result is less than or equal to a, b, and c.
 2. The result is equal to one of a, b, or c.

Your proof “strategy” was to simply unfold the definitions and then hand off the resulting disjunctions and inequalities to automation (aesop? and linarith). Although this is a natural approach, the structure produced by the if–then–else (the nested ite’s) means that the proof splits into several cases. Not every case is handled automatically with the tactics you used, and the current automation does not “know” to replace a strict inequality like c < a with c ≤ a.

──────────────────────────────
Step 4. Identifying Type Mismatches or Incorrect Assumptions

There isn’t a type mismatch in the usual sense (all variables are of type Int and the comparisons are on Ints) but there is a “mismatch” in the form of the inequality: you have assumptions of the form “c < a” (a strict inequality) while the goals are “c ≤ a” (a non-strict one). Although mathematically “c < a” implies “c ≤ a”, your automation (aesop? or even linarith in this context) isn’t automatically applying that conversion in each branch. This is why you see errors like:
  ⊢ c ≤ a
even when the hypothesis is “c < a.”

──────────────────────────────
Step 5. Considering Alternative Proof Strategies

One alternative strategy would be to manually do the case analysis by “splitting” the cases with tactics such as split_ifs or explicit cases on the disjunctions generated by unfolding minOfThree. In each branch you could then use conversion lemmas (for example, applying a lemma like lt_of_lt_of_le or simply invoking that “< implies ≤”) and then finish off the inequalities with tactics like linarith. For example, the proof template suggested by the error message is to use:

  split
  next h => { … }
  next h => { … }

and in the subcases, explicitly invoke the fact that a strict inequality implies a non-strict one.

──────────────────────────────
Detailed Analysis & Root Cause

The root cause is that by unfolding the definition of minOfThree you generate several “if–then–else” branches where some cases have strict inequalities (e.g. c < a or c < b) while your goal requires non-strict inequalities (e.g. c ≤ a or c ≤ b). Although these facts are logically obvious, the automated proof search (aesop?) does not automatically “convert” a strict inequality to its non-strict counterpart. Additionally, the combined use of aesop? and linarith at the top level does not “descend” correctly into all the branches spawned by the nested if’s.

──────────────────────────────
Suggested Direction for Fixing the Proof

One way to fix this is to manually break the proof into cases so that in each branch you can explicitly apply the lemma that “x < y implies x ≤ y.” For instance, you could use:

  unfold minOfThree minOfThree_spec
  split
  case left => 
    split_ifs with h₁ h₂
    -- in some branch you will have an hypothesis like h' : c < a 
    apply And.intro
    · exact le_of_lt h'  -- manually convert < to ≤
    · … -- continue the rest of the proof
  case right =>
    -- similar splitting and handling of the other branches

Then in each branch you could finish the inequality goals with linarith (or other tactics) now that the conversions are explicit.

──────────────────────────────
Conclusion

The error comes from using automation (aesop?) which is not strong enough to finish the case analysis generated by the nested if–then–else definition. In several cases the head goal requires proving a non-strict inequality (e.g. c ≤ a) while the hypothesis gives a strict inequality (e.g. c < a) – an obvious fact from a mathematical point of view, but one that the automation does not automatically bridge. The suggestion is to split the proof manually (or to supply extra lemmas) so that each branch explicitly handles the conversion from strict to non-strict inequality and then invokes linarith. This should satisfy the specification of minOfThree_spec and fix the error.

By restructuring the proof in this way, you guide Lean through the nested case analysis and allow it to handle each inequality step properly.