Below is a step‐by‐step analysis of what’s happening.

──────────────────────────────
Step 1. Identify which tactic is failing and why

The error message tells us that the call to simp is the culprit. When you write

  simp [Array.map]

Lean’s simplifier is trying to rewrite (or “unfold”) the constant Array.map. However, due to how Array.map (and its associated lemmas) are defined in Mathlib, simp keeps expanding or rewriting the definitions in a loop. In other words, the simp tactic is recursing indefinitely into properties of Array.map and never “bottoms out.” That is why the maximum recursion depth error is produced.

──────────────────────────────
Step 2. Consider the proof state at that point

After the initial “unfold cubeElements cubeElements_spec” the goal becomes something like:

  (a.map (fun x => x * x * x)).size = a.size ∧ (∀ i, i < a.size → (a.map (fun x => x * x * x))[i]! = a[i]! * a[i]! * a[i]!)

At this point, the proof wants to show the size of the mapped array equals the size of the original array and that each element is correctly computed. The simp [Array.map] call is meant to simplify that goal by “unfolding” the definition of Array.map and using available lemmas (e.g. that map preserves the size). Unfortunately, because the simp rules for arrays lead to a cycle, the tactic gets stuck.

──────────────────────────────
Step 3. Check if the proof approach matches the specification

The overall strategy is reasonable: you want to prove that mapping cubing over an array preserves the size and gives the cube of each element. In the proof you use a constructor to split the conjunction and prove each part separately—the first part is trivial (rfl) while the second is handled by introducing i and hi and then simplifying. The general shape of the proof is correct; the issue comes from relying on simp rewriting for the array definitions.

──────────────────────────────
Step 4. Identify any type mismatches or incorrect assumptions

There isn’t a type mismatch per se, and the assumptions about Array.map and Array.getElem_map are intended to match the specification. However, the problem is that the simp lemma set for Array.map is too aggressive or is not “well-founded” for the simp procedure: the rewriting provided by Array.map’s definitions leads the simplifier into an endless loop. In this context the simp tactic is “over-simplifying” your term and ends up chasing its own tail.

──────────────────────────────
Step 5. Consider alternative proof strategies

One alternative is to avoid the generic simp tactic that tries to simplify Array.map. Instead, try using targeted rewriting with the specific lemmas that state properties about arrays. For example, if Mathlib provides a specific lemma such as Array.size_map, you could rewrite the goal using:

  rw [Array.size_map]

for the first component of the conjunction. For the second component, you might try to rewrite with a lemma like Array.getElem_map (if available and correct) or simply unfold the definition manually for the specific index i. Doing so should avoid the recursion problem by not exposing the simplifier to the full recursive definition of Array.map.

──────────────────────────────
Conclusion and Suggested Direction for Fixing

The root cause of the error is that using simp [Array.map] (and later simp [Array.getElem_map, hi]) causes Lean’s simplifier to recursively expand the definition of Array.map without a natural stopping point, leading to infinite recursion. 

To fix the issue, try one or more of the following:
• Avoid a blanket simp call that unfolds Array.map. Instead, use targeted rewriting tactics such as rw with lemmas like Array.size_map.
• Check whether Mathlib provides “good” simp lemmas for Array.map and Array.getElem_map or whether you should mark some definitions as “irreducible” or use [opaque] to prevent recursion.
• Alternatively, update your proof so that you avoid unfolding the entire definition of Array.map and instead argue directly about the size-preserving property and the element-wise behavior of map.

By restricting the rewriting to only the necessary lemmas, you should avoid the maximum recursion depth error and complete the proof.