Below is a step‐by‐step analysis of the errors, what they tell us about the state of the proof, and some suggestions for a fix.

───────────────────────────── 
Step 1. Which tactic is failing and why

• Error messages like
  “unknown identifier 'This'” and “unknown identifier 'change'”
indicate that the tidy text that appears immediately after the definition of isGreater is not being treated as a comment. (In Lean every line of code has to be understood as either valid Lean or commented out.) The string
  This change ensures that the folding operation is using a defined method on Array in Lean 4, and the function now type-checks correctly.
appears in the middle of the definition. Lean is trying to parse “This” as an identifier, and it fails. 
• Later, the error message “unknown constant ‘Array.inductionOn’” tells us that in the induction tactic
  induction a using Array.inductionOn with
Lean cannot find a definition or induction principle named Array.inductionOn. (In Lean 4, Arrays are not an inductive type that comes with such a principle by default.)

───────────────────────────── 
Step 2. What is the proof state at that point?

At the moment the proof is being processed:
 • The ‘isGreater’ function is defined but is mixed with stray text that is not commented out.
 • The proof command “induction a using Array.inductionOn with” appears early in the proof. At this point Lean is expecting to use a valid induction principle on a ∶ Array Int, but no such principle (namely Array.inductionOn) is found. The tactic state is “stuck” because Lean cannot figure out how to decompose an Array.
 • Also note that the unfolding of definitions (via “unfold isGreater isGreater_spec”) has taken place without the later stray text causing prior issues.

───────────────────────────── 
Step 3. Does the approach match the specification?

The specification states that:

  (∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]!) ↔ (result obtained by foldl)
    isGreater_spec n a result.

The proof purportedly shows that this equivalence holds for the computed result. However:
 • To prove this equivalence, you want to reason using an induction principle that “breaks apart” the array. Since Array is not given an induction principle in Lean 4, you will either need to convert the array into a structure you can induct on (for example, a list) or prove a lemma that characterizes foldl on Arrays.
 • The current induction tactic “using Array.inductionOn” is not valid. Thus, the approach to perform the induction directly on a (of type Array Int) does not match the available specification and methods in Lean Mathlib for arrays.

───────────────────────────── 
Step 4. Type mismatches or incorrect assumptions

Two things are off here:
 • The text "This change ensures that..." is not a proper Lean comment. It must be commented out (using “--” for single-line comments or “/- … -/” for block comments). Otherwise, Lean tries to parse it as code.
 • The assumption that there exists an induction principle or tactic “Array.inductionOn” for arrays is false. Lean 4’s Array type does not automatically provide an induction principle like the one you attempted to use.
 • There may also be a deeper issue: foldl on arrays may need to be unpacked using foldl lemmas rather than standard structural induction.

───────────────────────────── 
Step 5. Alternative proof strategies

To remedy these issues, consider these suggestions:
 • Remove or properly comment out the text that is not valid Lean code. For example, replace
  This change ensures that the folding operation …
 with a comment:
// This change ensures that the folding operation is using a defined method… 
or use Lean’s comment syntax "--" or "/- ... -/".
 • For the induction part, since Array does not have an induction principle like List does, you have two main alternatives:
  – Convert the array to a list (via a function like Array.toList) and then perform induction on the list.
  – Prove and use a lemma that characterizes Array.foldl in terms of its structure, effectively “inducing” on the length of the array.
 • Alternatively, you may provide a custom induction principle for Array if that fits your overall development strategy.

───────────────────────────── 
Detailed Analysis of the Root Cause and Direction for Fixing It

The root causes of the error are twofold:
 1. Stray text from the “explanatory comment” (starting with “This change ensures…”) isn’t correctly commented out. Lean tries to parse “This” as an identifier.
 2. The use of the induction tactic “induction a using Array.inductionOn with” is based on the assumption that Array has an induction principle named Array.inductionOn. In Lean 4 (as it is used here) no such principle exists. 

To fix the issue:
 – First, remove or comment out any extra text that is not valid Lean code.
 – Then either convert the array into a structure (like a list) that supports induction or prove a specific lemma for Array.foldl. For instance, you could write:
  let xs := a.toList
  induction xs with …
and then relate the result of isGreater computed via foldl on the array to the property on the list.

By following these directions, you will overcome the syntax errors and set yourself on the right path to prove that isGreater computes a result equivalent to the given property.

───────────────────────────── 
Conclusion

The errors arise from un-commented non-code text in the definition of isGreater and the use of a non-existent induction principle for Array. Correcting the comment syntax and devising an induction strategy (or using a conversion to list) will be the essential steps for resolving the errors and progressing toward a valid proof.