Below is one detailed analysis of the problem’s error. In our proof we are “unfolding” the definition of isGreater (which uses Array.foldl) into an induction on the list a.toList. That causes several issues that make Lean “unsolvable” the goal. Let’s go through the analysis step‐by‐step.

──────────────────────────────
Step 1. Which tactic is “failing” and why

The error message points first to an unsolved goal. In our proof we use

  induction l with
  | nil => …
  | cons hd tl ih => …

and later we call tactics such as “cases i” and “apply ih”. The error is not a “syntax error” in the typical sense but rather that after the induction we do not solve all subgoals. In particular, the use of the induction hypothesis ih does not “line up” with the goal. That is, we try to apply ih – which is a lemma about the tail tl of the list – to a goal that is still stated in terms of the original array a (and its size and indexing a[i]!). Therefore a tactic (namely, the “apply ih”) is “failing” because the goal is still expressed in array‑terms and the induction was performed on its list conversion. Lean complains that after the tactics there remain “unsolved goals” (the equivalence between (∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]!) and the array-fold result).

──────────────────────────────
Step 2. What is the proof state at that point?

After unfolding and letting l = a.toList, the goal becomes

  (∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]!) ↔ Array.foldl (fun acc x => acc && decide (n > x)) true a = true

In the induction case for l = hd :: tl the hypothesis ih has type similar to  

   (∀ i, i < (tl.length) → n > (…)) ↔ (list.foldl … tl) = true

—but note that the goal still refers to the original array a (with its a.size and a[i]!). There is no proof that the head of l corresponds to the first element of a, or that tl corresponds to the “tail” of a. As a result, the intended rewriting via ih cannot be applied. Lean “sees” that after unfolding, there are goals (cells) that have not been closed.

──────────────────────────────
Step 3. Does the proof approach match the specification?

No. The specification is stated in terms of the array a:

   (∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]!) ↔ (…result…)

and the implementation uses Array.foldl. The proof, however, converts a to a list l and attempts to prove a property by induction on l. This disconnect means that the proof never “connects” the list fold with the array fold. In other words, the induction hypothesis (for tl) is about list.foldl over tl but the goal is about Array.foldl over a—and there is no bridging lemma between them in the proof.

──────────────────────────────
Step 4. What are the type mismatches or incorrect assumptions?

Two issues occur:

a) The proof is inducting on l = a.toList but then keeps using a (and its indexing a[i]!) in the statement. In other words, there is a type/representation mismatch: the specification talks about arrays, but the proof works with lists.

b) In the cons case we do “cases i” to do a case split on the natural number i. In the “succ” branch the proof does “apply ih” and uses a hypothesis “succ_lt_succ hj”. Although the idea is to shift the index (as in “if i+1 is in the tail, then …”), the hypothesis ih is about the tail’s length—but the goal still talks about a.size and a’s indexing. The needed correspondence between a.toList and a (namely that a.toList.length = a.size and for each index, the nth element of a.toList equals a[i]!) is not brought into the context, so the indices and lengths do not match up.

──────────────────────────────
Step 5. What alternative proof strategies might work?

A better strategy is to avoid mixing arrays with lists in the proof. A few possible directions are:

• Prove a lemma relating the array’s fold (and its size/indexing) to the corresponding list-fold of a.toList. That is, show that  
  Array.foldl f init a = List.foldl f init (a.toList)
and that  
  a.size = (a.toList).length  
and that for any i, a[i]! equals the ith element of a.toList. Then you can safely perform induction on a.toList and transfer the result back to an array statement.

• Alternatively, do induction “directly” on the structure of the array (or prove a recursion principle using, for example, Array.forM or another method that “peels off” the head of the array) so that the entire proof remains in the array world.

• You could also prove two separate implications:
  (a) If Array.foldl … returns true then ∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]!  
  (b) If ∀ i, i < a.size → n > a[i]! then Array.foldl … returns true  
and then combine them, possibly using methods (such as using List.forall_mem) that directly relate array elements to a list and avoid induction entirely.

──────────────────────────────
Conclusion and Direction for Fixing It

The root cause of the error is that the proof “unfolds” the definitions and then converts a to a list, but leaves the final goal stated in terms of the original array. There is a mismatch between the objects used in the specification (arrays) and the objects used in the proof (lists). This mismatch leads to type incompatibilities with the induction hypothesis and leaves unsolved goals.

To fix the problem you should do one of the following:
 – Either prove (and use) lemmas that relate array operations (like foldl, size, and indexing) to the corresponding list operations on a.toList, so that the induction on the list is justified.
 – Or rework the proof so that it stays entirely in the “array world” (using, for example, recursors on arrays) to avoid mixing representations.

By aligning the proof’s objects with the specification’s objects and ensuring that any conversion between arrays and lists is justified by a lemma, the unsolved goals will be closed and the proof will type-check.

This is the detailed diagnosis of the error and a suggestion for how to proceed.